[this post](https://polclarissou.com/boudoir/posts/2021-02-22-Discourse-about-Discourse-part2-putting-politics-in-the-marios.html) by [pol clarissou](https://polclarissou.com) plays on heavy rotation in some design circles i'm involved in. while i personally think it's spot-on, it's also polemical, divisive. it provokes at least a little hostility about as often as it's linked. i don't think there's anything wrong with that, and i shouldn't excuse myself from such a reaction. my initial response, before the brainworm found it's way in, was hostile, as was that of the [the person who shared it with me](https://mut.media), and perhaps the person before them. i think this is a normal, first-order reaction to a confrontational text. it might even be the correct one, sometimes.

but this text is important. i wanna do my level best to try and describe what i think is correct and true about it and in a way that makes those ideas palatable. to acknowledge and reconcile a few objections that i've felt and heard at least a few times now.

(i think, maybe, that it's healthier for us to be upfront about those feelings. these sorts of qualifications are sometimes used as a form of gatekeeping, to shame people into feeling like they are too small-brained to understand a thing if they don't already get it. but there's gotta be some way to communicate that walking an evolutionary emotional journey with respect to an idea is okay without saying that it's also obligatory. this is not that obligatory qualification, perhaps this is all wrong.)

(it is oppressively easy for us to get hung up on semantics, on the implications of particular words and let those implications obscure our understanding of the broader points in a text (e.g. game, good, most, &c). to get bogged down in a cyclical search for counterexamples that are too easy to find. to take excessive satisfaction in "sharpening our swords" at the expense of our learning. it feels good to do this.)